# Instrumentation for Measurment and Observation

The doubling device of the keratometer is necessary due to...:Fine tremor of the eye.

What doubling technique is typically utilized by the keratometer?:Constant object size with variable doubling.

What is the primary use of the keratometer?:To measure the radius of curvature of the apex of the anterior surface of the cornea.

what is the combined refractive index of the cornea and aqueous?:1.3375

What is the conversion formula of diopter to millimeter?:Diopters=(1.3375 - 1.00)/meters

How to convert meters to millimeters:D=337.5/meters

The size of the mire (target) on the front of the keratometer is...:64mm

What is the distance from the front of the keratometer to the front of the cornea when the keratometer is in focus is...:75mm

The keratometer derives its measurment of a meridian from how many points on the cornea?:2

The range of curvatures the keratometer can measure without auxiliary lenses is...:36.00D to 52.00D

The chord length of the mire measured by the keratometer without auxiliary lenses is...:3.8mm to 2.6mm

When classic keratometry is preformed by having the patient sight on the mirror image of their eye, alignment of what is accomplished?:The optical axis with the visual axis

Keratometer fixation techniques will not produce true measurments due to what ocular conditions?:Unusually high astigmatism, post-cataract extraction, post-keratoplasty, irregular astigmatism, after pterygium resection, healed corneal lacerations, keratoconus

The eyepiece of the keratometer should be focused how often?:Daily

How to extend the range of keratometer readings?:By placing a trail lens over the eyepiece. -1.00D trail lens will provide a lower range to 30D. +1.25D will provide a higher range to 61D

The keratometer eyepiece if not properly focused can cause...:Errors in correctly reading curvature

In addition to measuring the cornea, the keratometer can be used to...:Check the curvature of a contact lens

When the keratometer is properly aligned in front of an eye, the patient will see...:A green light

How do you calculate the amount of corneal astigmatism?:By taking the diffrence between the horizontal and vertical drum readings

When the keratometer is out of focus on the cornea...:The central focusing circle, the plus, and minus signs are doubled

When measuring the horizontal meridian with the keratometer...:The plus mires are superimposed

What is the first step that should be performed when taking keratometer measurements?:Focus the eyepiece.

What do we measure with the keratometer?:Corneal curvature.

Which of the following is most likely to cause transient keratometric mire distortion?:Pre-ocular tear film.

Which auxiliary trial lens will extend the keratometer range to approximately 61D?:+1.25

Which of the following statements accurately describes a Schirmer I test?:A patient with normal tear output should wet at least 15mm of the strip in 5 minutes.

What do we measure when we place the concave side of a gas permeable lens against the lens stop of the lensometer?:Back vertex power.

Which instrument allows simultaneous verification of lens diameter, optical zone width and peripheral curve width?:A measuring magnifier.

A contact lens thickness gauge measures the thickness of a rigid lens to be 0.73mm. This is most likely which type of lens?:High plus power.

What will the mires of a warped corneal rigid lens show on the radiuscope and the lensometer?:Two base curves / spherical

What parameters of a rigid lens can be confirm with a measuring magnifier?:Posterior optic zone diameter and overall diameter.

Why is the use of a Wratten #12 or Tiffen yellow filter important in evaluating the fluorescein pattern of patients with GP lenses?:Many GP lenses have UV inhibitors that block the accurate fluorescein pattern.

What does the V gauge measure?:The diameter of a rigid lens.

Which slit lamp illumination gives an overall view of the cornea, but limits detail?:Diffuse.

What slit lamp technique should the practitioner use to detect gross corneal edema?:The naked eye and an angle between the slit lamp beam and the eye of 45 degrees.

Which type of slit lamp illumination will allow you to determine corneal thickening, thinning, distortion and depth of foreign bodies or opacities in the cornea?:Optic section.

Which method of slit lamp illumination makes it easiest to detect corneal microcysts?:Retroillumination.

Which type of slit lamp illumination is used for observing tear film break up time?:Diffuse illumination.

With which of the following must a special filter be used to evaluate fluorescein patterns?:Polymers with a UV blocker.

Why do we use a Wratten #12 filter with the biomicroscope?:To enhance fluorescein evaluation.

What does it mean when the Placido rings on a corneal topographer are very close together?:The cornea is steep.

What instrument is used to measure and evaluate corneal curvature and elevation of the anterior and posterior cornea?:Video Keratographer.

When the topography of a corneal transplant patient is steepest in one meridian and flattest 90 degrees away what does this indicate?:Regular Astigmatism.

Which of the following maps are used most often when evaluating corneal topography?:Axial and Tangential.

What is the purpose of LARS Principle?:To provide a formula for adjusting axis rotation of a toric lens.

Which of the following might cause an inability to bring the keratometer mires into clear focus?:Irregular astigmatism.

A patient has a tear-film Break-Up-Time (BUT) of 7 seconds. What soft lens modality will best suit this patient?:A daily disposable soft lens.

During the slit-lamp examination the practitioner notes small yellowish raised nodules on the conjunctiva a three and nine o'clock. How might they be affected by contact lens wear?:They might become inflamed if they are rubbed by the lens edge.

Mary's best-corrected vision with glasses is 20/60 OD. How can we determine whether her vision may be improved with contact lenses?:Recheck her vision using a pinhole disc.

John's topography shows a blue circular area in the center, surrounded by circles of green, then yellow, then orange. What can we determine by looking at this map?:John has had refractive surgery.

What condition might be indicated by low tear film break-up time, punctate keratitis, conjunctival staining and decreased tear meniscus?:Dry eye.

What type of astigmatism is indicated when the K-readings have axis readings that are not 90 degrees apart?:Irregular astigmatism.

Keratometry readings show measurements of 45.50/49.25 x 095. Mires have mild distortion and you are unable to achieve 20/20 acuity with refraction. What condition does this most likely indicate?:Keratoconus.
