Average horizontal corneal diameter:11.7:Anatomy

What tool is used to measure the base curve of a GP contact lens:Radiuscope:Tools

What are the two basic scales used on a corneal topographer:Absolute and normalized:Corneal Topography

A progressive, non-inflammatory condition in which the cornea thins and bulges forward is called:Keratoconus:Ocular Condition

The crystalline lens is responsible for approximately how much refractive power:15.00D to 16.00D:Anatomy

Two thirds of the eye’s refractive power is provided by the:Cornea:Anatomy

A build up of fluid in the cells is called:Edema:Ocular Condition

In order to reduce the risk of damaging a GP lens during modification because of heat, it is important to:Use lots of water and polish:Preventive Measures in Contact Lens Handling

At what point do contact lens powers need to be vertexed:+/- 4.00D:Vertex Conversion

At what point should a topic lens be considered for a soft lens candidate:0.75D of refractive astigmatism:Threshold for Toric Lens Prescription

The evaluation of a contact lens fit is done with what tool:Slit Lamp:Tools

How much overlap onto the sclera should there be in every direction for a well fit soft lens:1mm:Optimal Scleral Overlap

Sclera indentation is an indication of:Tightly fit soft lenses:Signs of Poor Lens Fit

What can be used to evaluate the blends of a GP lens:Fluorescent bulb:Tools

The corneal topographer is based on the principles of the:Placido disk:Corneal Topography

When converting diopters to mm of radius, every 0.25D equal approximately:0.05mm of radius:Diopters to Radius Conversion
Alternating vision bifocal: A bifocal contact lens designed much like a bifocal spectacle lens, with the distance prescription in the upper portion and the near prescription in the lower portion. The lens is designed to move (translate) up as the patient looks down, enabling the wearer to read through the lower portion of the lens. : Contact Lens

Amblyopia: Loss of vision without any apparent disease of the eye. : Vision Condition

Ametropia: A refractive error in which the eye, when in a state of rest, does not focus the image of an object clearly upon the retina; includes hyperopia, myopia, and astigmatism. (See also refractive error) : Refractive Error

Anionic (an-eye-ON-ic): A term applied to chemicals in contact lens solutions that carry a negative electrostatic charge. : Chemistry

Aniridia: Partial or total absence of the iris (can be congenital or traumatic). Congenital aniridia is often accompanied by glaucoma, nystagmus, amblyopia, buphthalmos, macular and optic nerve hypoplasia, and cataract. : Eye Condition

Anisocoria: Difference in the size of the pupils from one eye to the other. : Eye Condition

Aniseikonia: A condition in which the ocular image of an object as seen by one eye differs so much in size or shape from that seen by the other eye that the two images cannot be fused into a single impression. : Vision Condition

Annular bifocal (AN-you-lar): A bifocal contact lens with two zones; a circular zone centrally that contains the distance prescription, surrounded by a ring that contains the near prescription or a near central zone surrounded by a distance ring. It usually works on the principle of simultaneous vision, but some annular bifocals may translate. : Contact Lens

Anomaly: Departure from the normal. : General

Anophthalmia: Absence of the eyeball. : Eye Condition

Anterior Chamber: Fluid-filled space inside the eye, bounded in front by the cornea and behind by the iris; filled with aqueous humor. : Anatomy
